I was adopted at birth by a family in San Luis Obispo from my mother who lived in Wilmer, TX.  My parents planned this adoption and got to know my mom in the months leading up to my birth.  I didn’t know my birth mom until well into my 20s but that’s a different story.  I was raised in the church by my family.  They went to evangelical churches and raised me within those walled gardens of Christianity.  I remember as a kid idolizing my siblings Jon and Dee Dee.  I always wanted to be a part of everything and I always wanted to be the best at things.  In church I was always winning for memorizing Bible Verses, and always had to be insightful during discussions.  I thought it was the coolest idea and belief that there was a deity that actually loved me no matter what.

Then in 4th grade we moved to Atascadero, CA.  and we started going to Atascadero Bible Church.  I remember being upset about leaving SLO because I had my friends there and it was my home.  My parents always framed this move as I was being bullied in school and would come home crying about it all the time; I don’t really remember it this way but I was a very emotional and dramatic child and I have always felt my emotions very deeply and strongly to the core of my being.  The sold our house and bought a new one in Atascadero but I feel like this is only part of the story because my dad’s office was in Atascadero.  My parents are also super conservative and so I am sure the college town influence ended up being something they didn’t want to be around as much.  

When we moved to Atasadero, I remember they did a lot of things to the house; my dad always had to have a million projects going on which I picked up from him unfortunately. They built an above ground pool, then got rid of it and built a bigger above ground pool and built a deck around it, we put in a zip line for a few years, we had our dirt driveway paved and expanded for parking up at the top of the hill, we had tons of fruit trees, and I remember my dad just cut down all kinds of oak trees (which is totally not legal in California, but that was like according to Robert Miller). 
 

Even with the best intentions, my family has repeatedly put me through emotional and religious abuse. After being badgered by my mother, I was forced out of the closet and to be clear, I was 16; still a child.  I was then berated, told I was going to get aids and die, I was going to go to hell, constantly told I am not gay and I’m just trying to hurt them, all kinds of awful things to say to someone.  Then my family has a family meeting where my brother and his fiancee came down from San Jose to team up and bully me because I can’t just be gay.  I was 16 and still finding myself but my family was so closed minded and so christian that the thought of me being anything but was unacceptable to them to the point they tore me out of my highschool, made me go live with my sister, and go to another school.  My brother was the one forcing the decisions and bullying everyone into compliance.  I remember them saying “We have gay friends (FUCKING FALSE  Forced me to be inauthentic and live a lie just to survive which I didn’t even do a good job at.  Not going to church wasn’t an option in my family, it was something I was forced to do. 

Eventually I got kicked out again and had to go live with my friend Wendy. I had to work at Taco Bell to pay rent which was extremely low; they were really helping me out.  I found out later that my parents gave her a little bit here and there but in the end, I was forced out of my house. To this day I am paranoid about housing and being loved because I am not loved unconditionally by my family.  In my way I told myself I had forgiven them but forgiving them can only go so far when none of them will even acknowledge or validate my own experience and the things that happened to me.  The pastor at my parents church counseled them to kick me out as if that’s an excuse to be a shitty person let alone a shitty parent.  I hadn’t figured out who I was or what type of person I was becoming at this point but I was pushed over the edge by my family and their awful hateful actions.  They frame these actions as acting out of love trying to lead me back to Christ, but when you look at the situation from any kind of objective perspective my home, my safety, the family that is supposed to love me unconditionally put conditions on loving me.  Justifying hate by saying it’s tough love doesn’t take away from the fact that it’s hate, it just shows that you can’t be objective.

To this day, my Dad is the only person from my family that apologized to me for what they did to me and how they treated me.  I have gotten apologies FOR others’ actions from other family members but from those that were there that could have stood up for me, I never received an apology yet I had to go through hoops just to get back “into the family”.  I don’t know if that’s a family I want to be a part of.  I love my family members but I don’t think they know how to love me. I think their version of love is so singular that if you aren’t inside their walled garden, then there’s no way for them to love you.

All of this that I spoke about happened to me before I was 18 with the exception of the apology; that happened to me later on in my 20’s.  My dad went above and beyond to try and reconcile a relationship with me when the rest of my family wanted nothing to do with me.  He would meet with me from time to time and buy me lunch just to check on me, and would reach out to my friend Wendy just to check in on me and see how I was doing.  The church told my parents not to have anything to do with me and for all of my dad’s faults, and he had a lot as we all do, he had such a big heart.  

I worked for him at his office when I was 18 and again with all of my dad’s great qualities he had a bad temper and he called me screaming at me because something hadn’t been done at work demanding that I come back immediately.  This was a few hours after I had left and I was already in Ventura on my way to LA and in short he said come back now or don’t come back at all and I said ok well I guess you’re firing me then dad and hung up.  He would constantly go back and forth and explode about something and then everyone would just pretend it didn’t happen.  Thinking back on this point I was always gaslit into “well YOU chose to leave and YOU chose to quit” but no that is not the case.  I received spiritual/religious abuse by my family as a teen.  I experienced emotional trauma and abuse with them making love a conditional thing for me. Being a part of my family has always been conditional on me meeting their standards and their rules which contradicts what family is even supposed to be.  

I moved to seattle after this incident and stayed for about a year until I came back and lived with some friends for a while. I was lost, I didn’t know what I was doing, I didn’t get to finish highschool or go onto college like all my friends did; I didn’t have a normal chance at the normal path all because I was “gay and rebellious” and to this day I get reminded that “I was a ‘turd’ back then” and “I was a lot to deal with” but to be honest all of this was normal teenage stuff that was magnified by my family’s lack of ability to accept me for me, THAT IS NOT WHAT A FAMILY IS!

I moved back, Seattle wasn’t for me THEN, and also looking back I missed out on those vital few years of growing into adulthood and was just thrust into the world to figure it out on my own.  I had tons of emotional damage and was flailing about on my own.  When I came back to SLO, I stayed with some friends and we had a falling out and so my parents had talked to me on and off and my dad at converted part of the garage into a studio so I had moved back in with them for a while.  I would still go out with my friends and I had a friend that was pestering me to go out to a part and I didn’t want to go but I did. Long story short, I had one drink and got a DUI that night.  I got back home and went to bed and my parents found out from someone what happened and flew into my studio accosting me, my mom drew blood from my arm grabing me with her nails shaking me and I remember having to push her off of me and it turned into an altercation.  I don’t remember who came and got me but I grabbed what I could in a bag sobbing and left because again; my mistakes meant I can’t be a part of their family or live there.  AGAIN THIS IS NOT LOVE OR A FAMILY.  

Pause for a minute and think; I never drank alcohol or smoked weed until they kicked me out because before that I had no interest in it; I was around people who drank and smoked but I hadn’t because I knew I was gay and that was what we had in common.  But then once my parents disowned me simply for existing as myself that’s when I tried and liked the drugs and alcohol.  The very thing that they were disowning me for and demonizing me for was the thing they themselves created with their own hate.  And rejection of me.  Yes, we are all responsible for our own actions and that is 100% true however in that same light my family also needs to bear the responsibility of how their actions impacted my life and the ways I tried to find belonging after they took that away from me.
I always say I hate religion, and to me Christianity is a specific part of religion that I can never support.  It has torn me apart and completely made me othered simply because I wasn’t made the way they deemed worthy of being. After my DUI, I stayed with my best friend Jeromey for what seemed like forever; I honestly don’t recall exactly how long but when my family wasn’t a family for me, Jeromey was family to me.  We had so many laughs and good times which are just what I needed in a time when I was so shattered as a person trying to figure out how I can get through my life without having that safety net of a family, without having that unconditional love of a family.  My family taught me that everything is conditional and that humans aren’t capable of true unconditional love which is so sad.  This is usually the point where they chime in with some crap about god being the unconditional love but I call bullshit on that;  If god and his “love” are supposed to shine through these people, then why the fuck are the so fucking awful to everyone that doesn’t fit into their image of what perfection is.  

When staying with Jeromey one of the many meaningful things that happened in my life when I was there is I reconnected with my friend Charles, who I lovingly call sister, because he used to date one of my other best friends and as usual with human nature it’s a pick me when things like that happen with your friends.  We ended up becoming not just actual friends, but lifelong friends and he is one of the most important people in my life today.  Jeromey and I had a falling out for many years, but that’s another story.  When we reconnected this past year in 2025, we actually got to see each other in person for the first time with Charles in Portland and surprised Charles and got to spend the day together.  This was after my friend Erin had gotten married and I was in her wedding the day before so this was a weekend that made my heart overflow with that family love but funny enough it wasn’t from anyone in my actual family.  

After living with Jeromey, I moved in with my friend Dolce for a short period; a few months maximum.  That’s when my friend Jackie and I decided to move to San Francisco together.  She got a sublet from one of her contacts and a new job, I went up there jobless to look and found a job working as a Jr. loan officer.  My stint in San Francisco was a short one and to be honest I don’t remember the exact logistics of the falling out with Jackie and I, but from what I remember it was a mix of her girlfriend, our friend Ashley who was staying with us (another lifelong friend who inspires me every time I look at her authentic life) and of course money of some sort probably.  I remember I came back and they had put all of my things in the street.  I remember salvaging what I could from the pile of my things on 9th avenue in San Francisco.  Again, I was broken down and let down and had no sense of stability. 

I had been talking to a guy named Ray and we were casually online dating and when he found out what happened he offered to let me move in with him in Sacramento.  I still to this day don’t know how I found so many people in life with bigger hearts than anyone in my family.  I didn’t know it at the time, but that was the most important move I would make in my life because that is ultimately where I met my partner, DJ, whom I have been with for 18 years. Ray and I were obviously not meant to be together but he did become a friend of mine on and off until he passed away from cancer a few years back.  My constant instability didn’t stop here though, because when the lease was up with Ray, I had to figure out what I was going to have to do.  I was working as a jr. loan officer at American Home Loans, and I met Bruce and Heather the owners there who were important in my life as well.  Well I remember there was a co-worker Monika and she had moved in a block away from where my place with Ray was and she wanted me to move in to help her with her rent, it was her and her daughter.  Heather was the one that orchestrated it with her sister Lisa, who was the manager at American Home Loans.  I moved all my stuff down the street from my place with Ray to Monika’s, and the first day, she was arrested and CPS came and took her kids.  I don’t remember much about why this happened but I called Lisa and Heather in a panic; I just moved in with someone and again all of this craziness happened!  

At this point, I had a boyfriend Maiku and he had told me I could stay with him as long as I needed to.  This obviously was a bad idea and again we weren’t a good match but again I had no options; I had no family to lean on or to support me as they had made it very clear that I wasn’t welcome in their lives because of “the life I was living” which is what they had told me when I had called them when things happened.  I remember asking if I could come home one time, I think I had been drinking and called them and they were angry I dared call them under an influence and pointed out that because of the way I live I’m not welcome around.

I was constantly looking for other jobs because as a Jr. Loan Officer, you only got commission and it was really hard to close deals and I was just making small commissions here and there for tiny loans in arkansas and credit repar/bankruptcy referrals.  I distinctively remember I went to an interview at the Folsom Outlets, and then I missed the last lightrail train back, and so I had to walk from Folsom all the way to the Sunrise station where the trains ran late.  My phone had died, I had no way to contact anyone, I had no money, I was just walking down the lightrail tracks for what seemed like forever but was in reality about 2 hours. I remember Maiku was pissed I was back late, to be honest I get it and that would have been my reaction from that perspective at that time.  That was around the time we broke up and so I was trying to figure out what to do.  In TYPICAL Josh fashion, or maybe it’s just the universe’s own perfect timing, on the “gay myspace” downlelink.com (now defunct) I got a message from DJ saying he thought I was cute.  I looked at his profile and he was so perfect and adorable  I remember one of his halloween costumes was shirtless with black angel wings and I just thought he was the most beautiful person I had ever seen. I still think that to this day.  We chatted for a week or so and I remember logging in every day and throughout the day when I was at work just hoping I’d have  a message from him.  

One particular morning, I had forgotten my lunch at home, and Maiku was berating me for not cleaning the sponge used for dishes properly, there were still egg particles in it and that made him upset.  I don’t fault him because I was a burden on him and I would have the same frustration, but at this point in time, I didn’t know any better.  I was just in survival mode perpetually since I was 16. Now at 20, I was again knowing I had a ticking clock and full of anxiety and worry.  DJ would go to borders to get online and so he went to Borders to message me and I was online at work at this time too.  We chatted and I told him I was having such a bad day because of Maiku getting mad at me and sending angry texts, me forgetting my lunch, and just everything sucking.  

Flash forward to later that day, DJ walked INTO MY OFFICE with Chinese takeout from his favorite place Good Friends. I was completely in SHOCK.  This was not the Friday that I thought I was going to be having.  Lisa the manager was like “Girl, he is so fine, you better leave for the day and go with him!” and so I did.  I went to DJ’s house with him and long story short I didn’t leave.  He saw all the crazy texts that I was getting from Maiku and DJ was like, um no you can stay with me and I said no at first but then he was like no you should and so I did.  DJ and I impacted each others’ lives so much I wouldn’t be the person I am today without him.  DJ has such a pure love for people and he always sees the best in people where as I had grown to always see the bad because that’s what I had been presented.

Obviously me moving in that soon wasn’t great for our relationship and I had a lot of growing to do still that had for all intents and purposes been stunted since 16 when I was kicked out. 
